README.md, before:

*Please :star: this repo if you find it useful*

# Home Assistant Integration of JQ-300/200/100 Indoor Air Quality Meter

[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag-date/Limych/ha-jq300?label=release&style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/releases)
[![GitHub Activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/Limych/ha-jq300.svg?style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/commits/master)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Limych/ha-jq300.svg?style=popout)](LICENSE.md)
![Requires.io](https://img.shields.io/requires/github/Limych/ha-jq300)

[![hacs](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg?style=popout)][hacs]
![Project Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Andrey%20Khrolenok%20%40Limych-blue.svg?style=popout)

[![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/Limych/ha-jq300?style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/pulls)
[![Bugs](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Limych/ha-jq300/bug.svg?colorB=red&label=bugs&style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ABug)

[![Community Forum](https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=popout)][forum-support]

This component allows you to

I also suggest you [visit the support topic][forum-support] on the community forum.

![](logo.jpeg)

_Thanks to [tomaae](https://github.com/tomaae) for the financial support in purchasing the device for creating this project._

## Installation

### HACS - Recommended

1. Have [HACS](https://hacs.xyz) installed, this will allow you to easily manage and track updates.
1. Search for "JQ-300/200/100 Indoor Air Quality Meter".
1. Click Install below the found integration.
1. Configure using the configuration instructions below.
1. Restart Home-Assistant.

### Manual

1. Using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
2. If you do not have a `custom_components` directory (folder) there, you need to create it.
3. In the `custom_components` directory (folder) create a new folder called `jq300`.
4. Download _all_ the files from the `custom_components/jq300/` directory (folder) in this repository.
5. Place the files you downloaded in the new directory (folder) you created.
1. Configure using the configuration instructions below.
1. Restart Home-Assistant.

Using your HA configuration directory (folder) as a starting point you should now also have this:

```text
custom_components/jq300/__init__.py
custom_components/jq300/const.py
custom_components/jq300/manifest.json
custom_components/jq300/sensor.py
```

<p align="center">* * *</p>
I put a lot of work into making this repo and component available and updated to inspire and help others! I will be glad to receive thanks from you — it will give me new strength and add enthusiasm:
<p align="center"><br>
<a href="https://www.patreon.com/join/limych?" target="_blank"><img src="http://khrolenok.ru/support_patreon.png" alt="Patreon" width="250" height="48"></a>
<br>or&nbsp;support via Bitcoin or Etherium:<br>
<a href="https://sochain.com/a/mjz640g" target="_blank"><img src="http://khrolenok.ru/support_bitcoin.png" alt="Bitcoin" width="150"><br>
16yfCfz9dZ8y8yuSwBFVfiAa3CNYdMh7Ts</a>
</p>

## Usage

To use this component in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
jq300:
  username: YOUR_EMAIL
  password: YOUR_PASSWORD
```

> **_Note_**:\
> Before using the devices you need to connect them to your account through the official app.
>
> Only one user can be logged into an account at a time. Therefore, each time updated the sensor values from HA, authorization from the official application on your phone will be lost. Authorization is restored when you restart the official application.


### Configuration variables

**username**:\
  _(string) (Required)_\
  The username for accessing your account.

**password**:\
  _(string) (Required)_\
  The password for accessing your account.

**devices**:\
  _(list) (Optional)_\
  List of names of devices to add to Home Assistant:\
  _Default value: all available devices_

## Contributions are welcome!

If you want to contribute to this please read the [Contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Track updates

You can automatically track new versions of this component and update it by [custom-updater](https://github.com/custom-components/custom_updater) (deprecated) or [HACS][hacs].

For custom-updater to initiate tracking add this lines to you `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
custom_updater:
  track:
    - components
  component_urls:
    - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Limych/ha-jq300/master/tracker.json
```

## License

creative commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License

See separate [license file](LICENSE.md) for full text.

[forum-support]: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/indoor-air-quality-sensor-component/160474
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs

Commit message:

Add receive_tvoc_in_ppm and receive_hcho_in_ppm config options.

README.md, after:

*Please :star: this repo if you find it useful*

# Home Assistant Integration of JQ-300/200/100 Indoor Air Quality Meter

[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag-date/Limych/ha-jq300?label=release&style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/releases)
[![GitHub Activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/Limych/ha-jq300.svg?style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/commits/master)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Limych/ha-jq300.svg?style=popout)](LICENSE.md)
![Requires.io](https://img.shields.io/requires/github/Limych/ha-jq300)

[![hacs](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg?style=popout)][hacs]
![Project Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Andrey%20Khrolenok%20%40Limych-blue.svg?style=popout)

[![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/Limych/ha-jq300?style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/pulls)
[![Bugs](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Limych/ha-jq300/bug.svg?colorB=red&label=bugs&style=popout)](https://github.com/Limych/ha-jq300/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ABug)

[![Community Forum](https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=popout)][forum-support]

This component allows you to

I also suggest you [visit the support topic][forum-support] on the community forum.

![](logo.jpeg)

_Thanks to [tomaae](https://github.com/tomaae) for the financial support in purchasing the device for creating this project._

## Installation

### HACS - Recommended

1. Have [HACS](https://hacs.xyz) installed, this will allow you to easily manage and track updates.
1. Search for "JQ-300/200/100 Indoor Air Quality Meter".
1. Click Install below the found integration.
1. Configure using the configuration instructions below.
1. Restart Home-Assistant.

### Manual

1. Using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
2. If you do not have a `custom_components` directory (folder) there, you need to create it.
3. In the `custom_components` directory (folder) create a new folder called `jq300`.
4. Download _all_ the files from the `custom_components/jq300/` directory (folder) in this repository.
5. Place the files you downloaded in the new directory (folder) you created.
1. Configure using the configuration instructions below.
1. Restart Home-Assistant.

Using your HA configuration directory (folder) as a starting point you should now also have this:

```text
custom_components/jq300/__init__.py
custom_components/jq300/const.py
custom_components/jq300/manifest.json
custom_components/jq300/sensor.py
```

<p align="center">* * *</p>
I put a lot of work into making this repo and component available and updated to inspire and help others! I will be glad to receive thanks from you — it will give me new strength and add enthusiasm:
<p align="center"><br>
<a href="https://www.patreon.com/join/limych?" target="_blank"><img src="http://khrolenok.ru/support_patreon.png" alt="Patreon" width="250" height="48"></a>
<br>or&nbsp;support via Bitcoin or Etherium:<br>
<a href="https://sochain.com/a/mjz640g" target="_blank"><img src="http://khrolenok.ru/support_bitcoin.png" alt="Bitcoin" width="150"><br>
16yfCfz9dZ8y8yuSwBFVfiAa3CNYdMh7Ts</a>
</p>

## Usage

To use this component in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
jq300:
  username: YOUR_EMAIL
  password: YOUR_PASSWORD
```

> **_Note_**:\
> Before using the devices you need to connect them to your account through the official app.
>
> Only one user can be logged into an account at a time. Therefore, each time updated the sensor values from HA, authorization from the official application on your phone will be lost. Authorization is restored when you restart the official application.


### Configuration variables

**username**:\
  _(string) (Required)_\
  The username for accessing your account.

**password**:\
  _(string) (Required)_\
  The password for accessing your account.

**devices**:\
  _(list) (Optional)_\
  List of names of devices to add to Home Assistant.\
  For each device, all sensors are created, which are possible:\
  for all devices: TVOC, HCHO (Formaldehyde) and eCO<sub>2</sub>;\
  for JQ-200 and JQ-300 only: internal temperature and humidity;\
  for JQ-300 only: PM 2.5.\
  _Default value: all available devices_

**receive_tvoc_in_ppm**:\
  _(boolean) (Optional)_\
  By default, the cloud returns the TVOC value in `mg/m³` units. Setting this parameter to `True` allows to receive data in `ppm` units.\
  _Default value: False_

**receive_hcho_in_ppm**:\
  _(boolean) (Optional)_\
  By default, the cloud returns the HCHO (Formaldehyde) value in `mg/m³` units. Setting this parameter to `True` allows to receive data in `ppm` units.\
  _Default value: False_

## Contributions are welcome!

If you want to contribute to this please read the [Contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Track updates

You can automatically track new versions of this component and update it by [custom-updater](https://github.com/custom-components/custom_updater) (deprecated) or [HACS][hacs].

For custom-updater to initiate tracking add this lines to you `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
custom_updater:
  track:
    - components
  component_urls:
    - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Limych/ha-jq300/master/tracker.json
```

## License

creative commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License

See separate [license file](LICENSE.md) for full text.

[forum-support]: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/indoor-air-quality-sensor-component/160474
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
